Back here in the default screen layout you can see that our U-V mapped pillar is a little different
than the others and that's because it's got a cycle's material on it.
Now since we created the material you can come over here to the materials panel right here and you can
take a look at this and you can see that it's got that Checker material that we created.
If you click on one of these other pillars you can see it has no material whatsoever.
In addition if you come down here to the viewport shading we can switch this over from solid to texture
now and you can see the movie map in the 3-D view here.
Now we also U-V mapped this block but we're not seeing it even with it's switched over to the texture
view.
The reason that is is because it has no material you've got to have both a U.V. map and the material
to be able to see the texture.
So I'm just going to click here and choose our one material so far from the list.
And there is our checker pattern.
So now we could go through the process of duplicating and replacing each of these pillars.
And I'll do that a little bit later but we just go through the same process we did for each of these
appere and I could maybe change these and we could see the checker pattern on these as well.
All right.
Well let's take a look at another part of Racine scene that we could U-V map.
How about this coffin or crypt over here.
I'll zoom in with period key and take a look at it.
Now this one I think instead of using seems Nuvi unwrap we should probably use that smart U-V project.
Let's take a look.
I'm going to switch to the U-V editing view here.
I'll zoom in on isolate it with the division key and if we went through and let's say we tried just
the straight unwrap here and let's see what happens and what we'd get is a lot of stretched U-V islands
here we would have to go through and mark a lot of seams in here to be able to break this up and get
a good unwrap for each of these blocks.
So what we could try we could try like map pack and what that would do is it would break each of these
polygons out as a square.
And if we did that our texture on each of these blocks would be stretched because these are more rectangular.
So that's not going to work either.
So I press you and let's try smart U-V project and what that will do is it will actually break each
polygon out as its own U.V. island but it will maintain the relative size the rectangular shape of each
of those.
So that I think is probably the best we're going to do for this particular object.
And that's and that's fine.
So let's go ahead and add that checker material to it.
I'll add that here and there's our checker pattern so all and isolate it.
And let's go back into the default view here and there we are.
There's our coffin object U.V. mapped.
Let's try something else.
How about the stairs over here.
I'm going to go back to the U-V editing lay out the period key hit the division key.
And so this piece there are a couple of things that we could try here.
First of all I don't think we're going to need the faces on the back or on the bottom so I'm going to
go ahead and select these faces back here and delete them.
And I think the same with these faces down here.
We don't need those because they just won't be seen.
And it's just going to be a pain to try and U-V map things that aren't going to be seen.
So I'll go to edge mode and I'll begin marking some edges here we could break this piece out.
I think let's try that.
I'm going to mark seams here and then we could break these edges are we could mark these edges so I'll
mark this as a seam and I'll go over them to it.
On the other side as well.
All right you know Mark that is a seam.
And I think that's about it.
Let's take a look at how this is going to unwrap so I'll select everything press you and hit unwrap
and.
OK that doesn't look too bad.
Let's take a look at it with the checker pattern on it.
Hmm that looks a little stretched.
That's I don't think that will work.
Let's take a look at what's going on here.
Now if you've noticed when we've been unwrapping things a little air pops up here and it's really not
a big deal but I just wanted to point it out.
So I'm going to hit unwrap again just to show you that it says object has non-uniform scale.
Unwrap will operate in nine scaled version of the mesh which is fine it does just fine with that but
I just want to see if there's any difference.
If we come over here and go to object mode and you see the scale here what it's saying is the scale
isn't applied.
So let me press control a and apply the scale so that the scale is back to ALL ones.
So let's just try this again.
You unwrap and now look at it.
We get a lot more uniform clean U-V unwrap because we've applied the scale.
Now we don't always want to apply the scale to everything we do.
There may be instances in which we don't want to do that but when we can and if it's reasonable It might
help with the U-V unwrapping.
All right.
So let's take a look at another object in the scene.
How about the ceiling up here.
Let's take a look at this.
Now one of the things we can do while we're in a particular screen lay out like this is if we want to
make one window temporarily full screen we can press control up arrow and that will give us view in
full screen and then to toggle back.
We just press control up arrow again and we can toggle back.
So if I wanted to make this U-V image editors screen full screen I could press control up with the arrow
or the cursor hovered over here to press control up arrow and that will make that full screen.
So I hit Control up again and I want to make this one full screen here.
All right.
So let's take a look at this.
I'll hit the tab key.
What I think I'll do is just select the edges along the side here I'll also select these
and I'll make these my seams
and then we go.
So that's going to break out this piece has its own piece.
And for the hole in the roof I think I'll go ahead and press alt and shift and go around here and select
these edges.
I like that and I'll do the same thing for these down here.
And so I'm going to also or Marcus seam for this edge right here as well.
So once again I'm just trying to be mindful of where the camera is going to be so I don't put a seam
right in front of the camera and I'll press control up to go back to my U-V editing view.
I'll go into edit mode and select everything and then press you and unwrap and there we go.
So it didn't quite do what I was hoping it would do.
It didn't split all these out.
This is that rim around the hole in the ceiling so it looks like I missed some edges here let's take
a look.
Yeah.
See how I miss some edges here.
And that's why it didn't break it out completely.
If you don't get all the edges selected it'll hang onto it these won't be split off.
So I need to select these edges so make sure I didn't miss any others here yet.
So I need to select these edges and control the and Mark seam.
Now let's see how we do so I'll select everything you and enwrap.
All right.
So that helped.
That helped break that out.
I could try angle based or informal.
I'll go with angle based.
Now in addition this piece over here it looks like it's the top view or the top part of the ceiling
and we don't really care about that and it's not important to us because we're just not going to see
it.
So I'm going to go ahead and add the checker material to this and then I'll shrink this top part down
and something like that.
So we don't really care about that.
This is just kind of a throw away piece.
So I'll go ahead and select that and instead of hitting control a to average islands scales.
I think what I'm going to do is just press control P because I want to pack everything in with the same
proportional scale as they have here.
So if I had control a it would make everything proportional to the 3D view again and I don't want that
I want to hit command or control Z to undo what I want to do is pack it in with the scale that I've
established here.
So I'm going to press control P and that will pack that into the zero to one space with the scale that
I've established.
So now you can see down here it looks good except for a little bit of stretching but up here it's really
stretched and that's OK because it's so small.
And no one's ever kind of see it.
So for this down here I need to work on that to zoom out here and just select this and move it aside
and let's try and scale it in the X and see what happens.
Well that's not well.
I can maybe I can scale it kind of like this and try and get those to be square.
Now I can press control P and pack them in to the 0 to one space.
All right.
Let's go back to the default view and let's see how we did yeah.
Now looks pretty good.